How to Follow Diet Do's and Don'ts.
Review some of the basic do's and don'ts of
a good diet to find your best balance.
You will need Breakfast Protein Fats Small
portions Veggies Light and water.
Step 1.
Never skip breakfast.
Keep breakfast simple, quick, and healthy,
by sticking with high-fiber options.
Don't load up on fast foods, snacks, or sugar.
Keep trail mix or dried fruit handy if you're
pressed for time and have to eat on the run.
Step 2.
Realize that protein keeps you feeling full
longer than carbs do.
Protein also absorbs water and creates a further
sense of fullness, which help you avoid overeating.
Step 3.
Eat fatty fish, nuts, and other healthy fats.
Flaxseed oil activates leptin, an appetite-suppressing
hormone.
Step 4.
Get good rest.
When you don't, your body produces more ghrelin,
a hormone that stirs hunger, rather than generating
the leptin needed to feel full.
Step 5.
Remove chips and treats from big bags, dividing
them into smaller storage bags, to control
the impulse to finish everything at once.
Researchers have found that people who ate
from large bowls consumed 56 percent more
food than those with smaller bowls.
Step 6.
Eat vegetables that are low in calories, and
packed with fiber, to fill up.
Steer clear of peas, corn, acorn and butternut
squash, or potatoes, which are too starchy.
Make it a rule to avoid buffets -- they make
portion control and limiting yourself more
difficult.
Step 7.
Eat in lighted rooms, where you're more self-conscious
of others watching.
You'll also be able to see your food, which
makes you more aware of how much you're eating.
Step 8.
Remind yourself that if you feel thirsty,
you're already dehydrated.
Drink water on a regular basis, whether thirsty
or not, to avoid feeling empty.
Step 9.
Don't snack after dinner.
When you eat late at night, the body stores
fat, and that digestion process interferes
with sleep.
Good luck with your diet.
Did you know There are about 3,500 calories
-- or stored energy --per pound of fat.